##Reflecting on the meaning of Mardi Gras

It is no coincidence that we begin to celebrate the first day of Mardi Gras/Carnaval on January 6th, the day that we celebrate the manifestation of Christ to mankind and it is related to the meaning of the word Carnaval. 

Carne vale signifies a farewell to the flesh. This is the literal meaning of the words in Latin. In other words it is through the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ that we begin our year and begin to celebrate the life eternal that we have in Him. 

It is common thought that since Mardi Gras marks the period between Christmas and Lent, the time of sacrifice and reflection, that its wild and chaotic nature is one of indulgence and purging ourselves of sin. 

On the contrary, I think that given the start of the season at the end of Christmas, it is the greatest time of rejoicing for the birth of God among us. Would it not make sense to throw a party for months on end when God himself deemed you worthy enough to be like you, to live like you, to eat and work and suffer like you? In this light, it makes perfect sense that Mardi Gras is the season that it is. It is certain that it can be easily used to fall into sin in the same way that we can lose focus when elated, but nonetheless the cause for this celebration is there. 

Truly, if practiced in a spiritual sense, what we are doing in the revelry and good times of Mardi Gras is letting ourselves slip into a sort of mindfulness. Why worry about the problems of this world and its temporal issues, when we have life eternal and identity everlasting in Christ. When done in this sense, Mardi Gras changes from a sinful bachanal into a Zen wine party where communion is King Cake. In joyous prayer we partake in the life abundant that Christ died to give us and in so doing honor His sacrifice with our Joy. 

Not all meditation must be solemn with ones legs crossed, rather it can take the form of laissant le bon temps rouler with friends, family, loved ones, and indeed, even strangers. 

I hope that you find Joy in Christ God this Carnaval season as we prepare ourselves to bid farewell to these earthly forms and bodies of flesh(carne) and eventually become one with joy everlasting.